The President:
Today, we pause to remember a day that tested our country.
On September 11, 2001, nearly 3,000 lives were lost in the
deadliest attack on American soil in our history.
We will never forget the images
of planes vanishing into
buildings; of photos hung by
the families of the missing.
We will never forget the anger and the sadness that we felt.
And while nine years have come
and gone since that September
morning, the passage of time
will never diminish the pain and
loss forever seared in the
consciousness of our nation.
That's why, on this day, we
pray with the families of those who died.
We mourn with the husbands and
wives, the children and parents,
friends and loved ones.
We think about the milestones
that have passed over the course
of nine years -- births and christenings,
weddings and graduations -- all with an empty chair.
On this day, we also honor those
who died so that others might
live: the firefighters and first
responders who climbed the
stairs of two burning towers;
the passengers who stormed a
cockpit; and the men and women
who have, in the years since,
borne the uniform of this
country and given their lives so
that our children could
grow up in a safer world.
In acts of courage and decency,
they defended a simple precept:
I am my brother's keeper;
I am my sister's keeper.
And on this day, we recall
that at our darkest moment,
we summoned a sense of
unity and common purpose.
We responded to the worst kind
of depravity with the best of
our humanity.
So, each year at this time, we
renew our resolve against those
who perpetrated this barbaric
act of terror and who continue
to plot against us -- for we will never waver in defense of
this nation.
We renew our commitment to our
troops and all who serve to
protect this country,
and to their families.
But we also renew the
true spirit of that day.
Not the human capacity for evil,
but the human capacity for good.
Not the desire to destroy,
but the impulse to save.
That's why we mark September
11th as a National Day of
Service and Remembrance.
For if there is a lesson to
be drawn on this anniversary,
it is this: we are one nation -- one people --
bound not only by grief, but
by a set of common ideals.
And that by giving back
to our communities,
by serving people in need,
we reaffirm our ideals --
in defiance of those who
would do us grave harm.
We prove that the sense of
responsibility that we felt for
one another that day nine years ago was not a fleeting passion
-- but a lasting virtue.
This is a difficult time for our country.
And it's often in such
moments that some try to stoke
bitterness -- to divide us based on our differences,
to blind us to what
we have in common.
But on this day, we are
reminded that at our best,
we do not give in
to this temptation.
We stand with one another.
We fight alongside one another.
We do not allow ourselves
to be defined by fear,
but rather by the hopes we have for our families,
for our nation, and for a brighter future.
So let us grieve for
those we've lost,
honor those who have sacrificed,
and do our best to live up to
the shared values that we have -- on this day,
and every day that follows.
Thank you.